README.md, before:

# Trackle library for Arduino Core

````
                     __     _         _ 
  _                 |    __| |       (_)   
 / |_  _ __ ___  ___|   / /| | ___    _  ___  
/_ __||  _/|__ \/ __|  / / | |/ _ \  | |/ _ \ 
 | |__| |  / _ | (__| /  \ | |  __/ _| | (_) |
  \__/|_|  \___/\___|/  \_\|_|\___|(_)_|\___/
````


[![GitHub version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-v1.3.1-blue)](https://github.com/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library/releases/latest) &nbsp; &nbsp;
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library?style=social)](https://github.com/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library/stargazers) 
__________

## What is Trackle

Trackle is an IoT platform that offers all the software and services needed to develop an IoT solution from Device to Cloud. [Trackle website](https://www.trackle.io)

## Overview
This document provides step by step instructions to install the Trackle library and connect your device to Trackle Cloud.
You can use Arduino IDE or VS Code (Microsoft Visual Studio Code) with PlatformIO IDE extension.

### Supported hardware
Trackle library for Arduino Core now supports only ESP32 based boards.

### Download
**Trackle [Library for Arduino Core](https://github.com/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library/releases/latest)**

### Installation
* If you are using Arduino IDE:
  * import this library as explained [here](http://arduino.cc/en/guide/libraries)
  * configure ESP32 boards as explained [here](https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/blob/master/docs/arduino-ide/boards_manager.md)
* If you are using VS Code (Microsoft Visual Studio Code) with PlatformIO IDE extension:
  * start a new project, select ESP32 board and Arduino as framework
  * edit ```platformio.ini``` and add:
  ```
  lib_deps = https://github.com/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library/archive/refs/tags/1.3.1.zip
  ```

### Quickstart
#### Get a Device ID and a private key
* Create an account on Trackle Cloud (https://trackle.cloud/)
* Open "My Devices" section from the drawer
* Click the button "Claim a device"
* Select the link "I don't have a device id", then Continue
* The Device Id will be shown on the screen and the private key file will be download with name ```<device_id>.der``` where ```<device_id>``` is Device ID taken from Trackle.
* To estract the key in PEM format (the one you must use in firmware) you need to run from command line:
```` 
openssl ec -in <device_id>.der -inform DER -out <device_id>.pem -outform PEM
```` 
* You should copy the content of ```<device_id>.pem``` file into your ```arduino_secret.h``` as follows:
```
#define PRIVATE_KEY "<private_key_pem_format>"
#define DEVICE_ID "<device_id>"
```
* ```<device_id>``` is an alphanumeric string composed by 24 characters;
* ```<private_key_pem_format>``` is the private key in PEM format (e.g. ```-----BEGIN EC PRIVATE KEY-----\n.....```), obtained by running the OpenSSL command in the previous chapter (comprehensive of ```\n``` characters).  
 
#### Configure for development with ESP32 WiFi

* Get a Device ID and a private key from Trackle Cloud;
* In Arduino IDE, select ```File -> Examples -> Trackle -> ESP32 generic WiFi```;
* In VS Code, copy the content of the file ```example/esp32_generic_wifi/esp32_generic_wifi.ino``` (inside this repo) into your ```src/main.cpp``` (inside VS Code);
* Add the following lines to your ```arduino_secrets.h``` (where ```<ssid>```and ```<password>``` are the credentials to access your wiki network):
```` 
#define SSID "<ssid>"
#define PASSWORD "<password>"
```` 
* Flash your ESP32 with the sample firmware by clicking "Upload" inside your IDE.

#### Configure for development with ESP32 Prodino Ethernet

* Get a Device ID and a private key from Trackle Cloud
* In Arduino IDE, select ```File -> Examples -> Trackle -> ESP32 Prodino Ethernet```;
* In VS Code, open the file ```esp32_prodino_ethernet.ino```  from the ```example/esp32_prodino_ethernet``` folder;
* Update your ```arduino_secrets.h``` with these information:
```` 
#define PRIVATE_KEY "<private_key_in_pem_format>"
#define DEVICE_ID "<device_id>"
```` 
* Flash your ESP32 with the sample firmware by clicking "Upload" inside your IDE.

When you are connected - you can check it in your device list on Trackle Cloud - explore all Trackle's features! You can customize any example for your hardware!

## Troubleshooting
While compiling, if you receive some "reference error to trackle::..." try to rename static library .a in src/esp32/ as libTrackle.a or Trackle.a
We found that with some Arduino IDE and PlatformIO plugins versions there is a bug and the compiler looks for the wrong static library file.

Commit message:

doc: table of contents for readme

README.md, after:

# Trackle library for Arduino Core

````
                     __     _         _ 
  _                 |    __| |       (_)   
 / |_  _ __ ___  ___|   / /| | ___    _  ___  
/_ __||  _/|__ \/ __|  / / | |/ _ \  | |/ _ \ 
 | |__| |  / _ | (__| /  \ | |  __/ _| | (_) |
  \__/|_|  \___/\___|/  \_\|_|\___|(_)_|\___/
````


[![GitHub version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-v1.3.1-blue)](https://github.com/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library/releases/latest) &nbsp; &nbsp;
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library?style=social)](https://github.com/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library/stargazers) 
__________

## Table of contents

1. [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
2. [What is Trackle](#what-is-trackle)
3. [Overview](#overview)
    1. [Supported hardware](#supported-hardware)
    2. [Download](#download)
    3. [Installation](#installation)
    4. [Quickstart](#quickstart)
        1. [Get a Device ID and a private key](#get-a-device-id-and-a-private-key)
        2. [Configure for development with ESP32 WiFi](#configure-for-development-with-esp32-wifi)
        3. [Configure for development with ESP32 Prodino Ethernet](#configure-for-development-with-esp32-prodino-ethernet)
4. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## What is Trackle

Trackle is an IoT platform that offers all the software and services needed to develop an IoT solution from Device to Cloud. [Trackle website](https://www.trackle.io)

## Overview
This document provides step by step instructions to install the Trackle library and connect your device to Trackle Cloud.
You can use Arduino IDE or VS Code (Microsoft Visual Studio Code) with PlatformIO IDE extension.

### Supported hardware
Trackle library for Arduino Core now supports only ESP32 based boards.

### Download
**Trackle [Library for Arduino Core](https://github.com/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library/releases/latest)**

### Installation
* If you are using Arduino IDE:
  * import this library as explained [here](http://arduino.cc/en/guide/libraries)
  * configure ESP32 boards as explained [here](https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/blob/master/docs/arduino-ide/boards_manager.md)
* If you are using VS Code (Microsoft Visual Studio Code) with PlatformIO IDE extension:
  * start a new project, select ESP32 board and Arduino as framework
  * edit ```platformio.ini``` and add:
  ```
  lib_deps = https://github.com/trackle-iot/trackle-arduino-library/archive/refs/tags/1.3.1.zip
  ```

### Quickstart
#### Get a Device ID and a private key
* Create an account on Trackle Cloud (https://trackle.cloud/)
* Open "My Devices" section from the drawer
* Click the button "Claim a device"
* Select the link "I don't have a device id", then Continue
* The Device Id will be shown on the screen and the private key file will be download with name ```<device_id>.der``` where ```<device_id>``` is Device ID taken from Trackle.
* To estract the key in PEM format (the one you must use in firmware) you need to run from command line:
```` 
openssl ec -in <device_id>.der -inform DER -out <device_id>.pem -outform PEM
```` 
* You should copy the content of ```<device_id>.pem``` file into your ```arduino_secret.h``` as follows:
```
#define PRIVATE_KEY "<private_key_pem_format>"
#define DEVICE_ID "<device_id>"
```
* ```<device_id>``` is an alphanumeric string composed by 24 characters;
* ```<private_key_pem_format>``` is the private key in PEM format (e.g. ```-----BEGIN EC PRIVATE KEY-----\n.....```), obtained by running the OpenSSL command in the previous chapter (comprehensive of ```\n``` characters).  
 
#### Configure for development with ESP32 WiFi

* Get a Device ID and a private key from Trackle Cloud;
* In Arduino IDE, select ```File -> Examples -> Trackle -> ESP32 generic WiFi```;
* In VS Code, copy the content of the file ```example/esp32_generic_wifi/esp32_generic_wifi.ino``` (inside this repo) into your ```src/main.cpp``` (inside VS Code);
* Add the following lines to your ```arduino_secrets.h``` (where ```<ssid>```and ```<password>``` are the credentials to access your wiki network):
```` 
#define SSID "<ssid>"
#define PASSWORD "<password>"
```` 
* Flash your ESP32 with the sample firmware by clicking "Upload" inside your IDE.

#### Configure for development with ESP32 Prodino Ethernet

* Get a Device ID and a private key from Trackle Cloud
* In Arduino IDE, select ```File -> Examples -> Trackle -> ESP32 Prodino Ethernet```;
* In VS Code, open the file ```esp32_prodino_ethernet.ino```  from the ```example/esp32_prodino_ethernet``` folder;
* Update your ```arduino_secrets.h``` with these information:
```` 
#define PRIVATE_KEY "<private_key_in_pem_format>"
#define DEVICE_ID "<device_id>"
```` 
* Flash your ESP32 with the sample firmware by clicking "Upload" inside your IDE.

When you are connected - you can check it in your device list on Trackle Cloud - explore all Trackle's features! You can customize any example for your hardware!

## Troubleshooting
While compiling, if you receive some "reference error to trackle::..." try to rename static library .a in src/esp32/ as libTrackle.a or Trackle.a
We found that with some Arduino IDE and PlatformIO plugins versions there is a bug and the compiler looks for the wrong static library file.
